---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/zettelkasten/2024/","updated":"2024-12-30T10:59:48.947-05:00"}
---

202412301010

Status: #idea

Tags: [[philosophy\|philosophy]] 

# 2024

*note: inspired by [this](https://martinsit.ca/writing/reflecting-on-2024)*

## the intentional life

i started to craft a pseudo-ethical system for myself, which centers around living life intentionally. **for all actions one can perform, choose those that have a purpose behind them.** when each action is purposeful, life naturally becomes more meaningful as a side effect. i have implemented this mindset in how i approach productivity, interact with others, and structure my daily routine.  

i realized that beyond any "meaning of life," the overarching lesson is that to truly live, one must act with intention.

## identity

i spent a significant portion of this year reflecting on who i am. it was eye-opening to realize that i had been on autopilot for much of my life. i am incredibly grateful that, despite this, i managed to gain acceptance into a prestigious university program without putting in notable effort.  

i began to craft a vision of the person i wanted to become. i wanted to be a provider for my future family. i wanted to be successful in my career. i wanted to serve as a good role model. most importantly, i wanted to be the best version of myself.  

2024 was all about identity. i had to define success for myself in all its forms. i had to determine the steps necessary to achieve it. for the first time in my life, i had to put in some serious effort.  

i'm happy to say that, although i still have a long way to go, i have begun my journey to truly becoming myself.  

## metaphysical pedagogy

i have always struggled with events outside my control. in 2024, i unintentionally began to approach life with a cynic's perspective. living more authentically led to a greater sense of peace and happiness with myself. going into 2025, i hope to maintain this sense of sacramental order and continue striving to live a virtuous life, inspired by diogenes.  

this year, life taught me many lessons. i have regrets and shortcomings, but the beauty of life is its forward momentum. by approaching life from an experiential perspective, i embrace everything it throws at me—whether "good" or "bad." while this mindset may align with stoic thought, i think it stems more from embracing a growth mindset.  

## askēsis and self-improvement

askēsis is a practice of self-discipline, an overcoming of the self by the self. it goes beyond simple discipline, encompassing all aspects of physical and mental training. working on myself is something i value deeply.  

i began by fixing my sleep schedule, which has become essential to my success as a person. i implemented an effective productivity routine that sharpens my mental acuity. i ensure i lift weights or go for walks to improve my physical health. most importantly, i regularly reflect on myself to increase mindfulness and self-awareness.  
